then it here on c-span to the house on
our companion network c-span c-span
Congressional directory is now available
to help you follow proceedings in the
House and Senate the handbook includes
biographies of members committee
assignments and information about c-span
programs the directory costs 1595
including shipping and handling to water
call one eight hundred c-span 98
next the Coalition on political
assassinations holds a form on the
assassinations records of Martin Luther
King jr. Robert Kennedy and President
John F Kennedy the form was part of a
three-day conference on disclosure of
additional documents concerning all
three assassinations this event last 40
minutes my name is Dan Alcorn I'm on the
board of the Coalition on political
assassinations an organization that we
founded in nineteen ninety four to
pursue public release of information
about the American political
assassinations first we were very
interested in president john f kennedy's
assassination and then the assassination
of Reverend Martin Luther King jr. and
senator robert f kennedy and other
political assassinations in the short
time that our organization has been in
existence we've had quite an eventful a
period the congress passed unanimously
in 1992 the JFK assassination records
act and that act has been in
implementation during this period of
time there's a federal organization
called the assassination records review
board which has had a two year life and
and we believe will be extended by
congress for an additional year so they
can continue until September of next
year in order to process and release
documents about the assassination of
president john f kennedy quite an
enormous amount of material has come out
through that process we're talking two
hundred and fifty thousand pages
released from CIA files which is the
broadest CIA file release at any time in
the history of that organization and
dwarfs other releases by that
organization and other federal agencies
the FBI has been turning over a quantity
of information that job is not complete
because the quantity of information is
so large the federal assassination
records board has decided that they need
an additional year to finish their work
congress held a hearing i guess last
week a committee hearing on the topic it
looks like Congress
to approve an additional year for the
assassination records review board and
we think that that's quite appropriate
also during the period of time that our
organization has existed there's been a
lot of public commentary on the topic of
disclosure of government information and
so we have felt that the past three and
a half years that our organization has
worked three and a half is right a
little over three years that we've been
in existence that there's been a lot of
progress on these issues that we're
concerned about but there's a long way
to go as well a recent disclosure that
we think is particularly troubling and
instructive is the disclosure of CIA
documents from the 1954 Guatemalan coup
d'etat operation in which the CIA
overthrew the democratically elected
government of the government of
Guatemala sometimes the stories don't
pick up on the fact that it was a
democratically elected government that
we decided overthrow in 1954 and
fourteen hundred pages were released
recently it turns out that these
fourteen hundred pages had been retained
by the CIA only because they were the
subject of a Freedom of Information
lawsuit they would have been destroyed
if they had not been the subject of a
FOIA lawsuit as they ultimately
announced many other records have been
destroyed but in this sort of
accidentally preserve fourteen hundred
pages there's ended a statement and
admission of a CIA assassination program
that was part of the Guatemala coup
operation and this program involved the
targeting of 58 political leaders in
Guatemala for assassination by an
assassin teams that were trained in
conjunction with the CIA there was
discussion in those records of the
shipping of silencers for 22 caliber
rifles from the u.s. to the assassin
team being trained in Honduras for use
in the Guatemala overthrow of 1954 now
the reason that this is so important is
that the CIA did not inform the Congress
of the United States of the existence of
this assassination program when the
Congress investigated the CIA's
involvement in assassinations so that in
1975 when the Congress made an
investigation of this issue they were
not informed of this apparatus that were
now finding from 1953 in 1954 and we
think that that describes the situation
that we're in in terms of achieving full
disclosure which we support which is
that we're nowhere near full disclosure
and we're still in the process of
actually uncovering what it is that we
need to go after for full disclosure
we're very disturbed that it has
recently been announced in the New York
Times that the CIA has destroyed their
records on the Iran overthrow in 1953
despite the fact that two directors of
Central Intelligence committed to public
release of those records Robert Gates
when he was director committed in 1992
that the CIA would begin to release data
on the Iran overthrow and the Guatemala
overthrow from 19 53 and 54 and then
when james Woolsey became president
clinton's first CIA director james
Woolsey announced that he would follow
through on that commitment and release
these documents on those operations it
has now been released it has been
announced five years after the
commitment that the reason they've never
been released is that they were
destroyed in the early 1960s and that in
fact there were no documents to release
and that the directors of Central
Intelligence who made that commitment
were misinformed or uninformed as to
what actually existed in the CIA this
prompted director Woolsey to make what I
think is the appropriate statement which
is this is a travesty on the history of
our country to have an official of the
government go out and make a commitment
like that to the American people that
public disclosure is going to be made
and openness is going to occur and then
have the records not to exist and
allegedly haven't existed since the
early 1960s and this
is the kind of uphill fight that we have
when we're trying to get full disclosure
that you really have to be very careful
about representations that are made by
these government agencies and
organizations as to what's going to be
released and what exists and so we we
have a struggle it is an important
struggle because what is at stake is
what director of the CIA Woolsey said in
the New York Times a couple of weeks ago
which is this is the history of the
country that's at stake that when these
records are destroyed then we have lost
part of the truthful history of what our
country is done around the world and
here at home over that period of time
and so we think that that makes it very
important that we keep artwork and
pushing for public disclosure and for
full investigation of the documentary
record and try to get as much out as
possible there been other things that
have happened in this time we had dr.
William pepper James Earl raise attorney
speak at our conference last year many
of you attended that session and you
heard way and pepper talk about the
Martin Luther King assassination then in
the intervening time obviously the media
has picked up on the story and it's
become quite a major story around the
country doctor way and pepper will be
back at our conference and will be
speaking here tomorrow I believe and so
dr. way and pepper will update us on the
Martin Luther King case finally in
something that I've had some involvement
in there's been a release of information
about the FBI crime laboratory and
indicating that there have been serious
problems in the FBI crime laboratory or
of an extended period of time which is
something which is not unknown to
assassination researchers the fact I had
first heard of those problems through
people who had researched on the
assassination cases and told me that the
crime lab work didn't look very good in
relation to assassination issues it
turns out that you don't have to take my
word for it or the word of the
assassination community but why don't
you look at the report of the inspector
general of the US Department of Justice
who found systemic
misconduct in the FBI crime laboratory
so we've had some things happen since we
founded this organization that we think
make the work of our organization than
the existence of our organization very
important and very important to trying
to get an accurate historical record of
this period in our country this modern
period in our country and that's what we
have been working for and will continue
to work for now I'm going to introduce
our program chair for our conference
he's going to speak then we'll take
questions once we've made the
presentations be happy to take questions
from the press i'm going to call at this
point on Wayne Smith dr. Wayne Smith he
is the program chair for the conference
this year he's a visiting professor of
Latin American Studies at Johns Hopkins
University and directs an academic
exchange program with the University of
Havana he is a also a senior fellow at
the Center for international policy and
formerly a senior associate at the
Carnegie Endowment for international
peace he is a member of the Council on
Foreign Relations he served 25 years
with the Department of State assigned to
the Soviet Union Argentina Brazil and
Cuba was executive secretary of
President Kennedy's Latin American Task
Force and cited as an outstanding
foreign service officer by its chairman
mr. Berle he was recognized as the
department of state's leading expert on
cuba he has published extensively has
several books to his credit including
the Russians aren't coming new Soviet
policy in Latin America let me call on
our program chair dr. Wayne Smith wait
thank you very much dad let me say that
I do not wish to fly under any false
flags I am NOT one of the researchers
looking into the facts of this case i
came to the assassination when i was
director of cuban affairs back in the
end of the 70s and i helped to arrange
the trip of the house select committee
to havana and i became interested in the
assassination at that point started
reading about
the assassination and it was appalled as
the as I got into it to find that the
Warren Commission clearly could not have
been correct and so I joined the
coalition on political assassinations
because I'm very interested and wanted
to be helpful but I am NOT one of the
researchers and I have not written any
books on the assassination itself I
think we have high slit Sara McClinton
get settled here and it was hi welcome
we have I think pulled together a very
interesting program this year and I
would urge you all including members of
the press to come back tomorrow for that
three to five panel on the Martin Luther
King assassination when William pepper
will will be here in addition to others
to talk about that particular case we're
also going to have panels tomorrow
morning on the history an overview of
the JFK assassination some speakers will
focus on Lee Harvey Oswald some of the
mysteries surrounding him and on the
forensic evidence panel three into some
extent panel five will be on the
forensic evidence which I would say is
the core of the case the coalition of
political assassinations does not base
it's it's doubts or its rejection
outright rejection of the Warren
Commission report on wild or even
well-founded theories essentially it is
based on facts I remember an interview
that Dan Rather did some years ago when
he was asked about the Kennedy
assassination and his thoughts on it and
he said well before he had become dan
Rather he had been a crime photographer
in a small town
newspaper and so he always focused on
the forensic evidence and based on that
he saw no reason to believe that the
Warren Commission had been wrong and
that the assassination had not been
carried out by a lone gunman firing from
behind well of course that depends upon
the forensic evidence that you're
looking at as we all know the autopsy
report that goes into the Warren
Commission report is not the original
autopsy report the original autopsy
report was destroyed by the autopsies
they themselves have acknowledged that
and they also destroyed all their notes
they also acknowledged that why did they
do that according to them they didn't
want that original report and the notes
to become memorabilia these are trained
doctors is supposed to be trained
autopsies no trained doctor would ever
destroy his notes and his original
autopsy report on that basis what goes
into the Warren Commission report is an
autopsy report that has written days
later we really don't know exactly when
when it was written but certainly after
Lee Harvey Oswald had been killed and
pointed to as the lone assassin nothing
coming out of the autopsy room that
night substantiates our supports this
second autopsy report the the artist's
conception that you will see in the in
the Warren Commission report shows a
wound in the back of the neck and the
autopsies of course now say or said at
the time when they wrote the second
autopsy report that the President had
been struck in the back of the neck the
bullet went through the neck exited the
throat and struck governor Connally but
the autopsy diagram they prepared that
night shows the
bullet not to a struck in the back of
the neck but to a struck down in the
back six six inches down in the back the
death certificate places the bullet
wound to the left of the third thoracic
vertebra are six inches down in the back
the report prepared by the two FBI
agents who were in the autopsy room that
night also places the bullet wound six
inches down in the back what difference
does it make well a bullet fired on a
downward from above on a downward
trajectory striking in the back is
certainly not going to exit the throat
seven inches above I suppose there's
some possibility that it can strike a
rib and do a 90 degree turn and exit the
throat but if so then it exits on an
upward trajectory and certainly is not
going to strike Connelly how have the
autopsies to explain this discrepancy in
their autopsy diagram that night and the
second autopsy report that they wrote
days later well they actually never have
they've never had to and one of the
reasons that we're waiting anxiously to
see what the review board produces is
because they at last have been deposed
and the autopsies that is have been
deposed and we're anxiously waiting to
see what they said it probably will not
satisfy us I'm sure they haven't said
well actually we perjured ourselves but
it will be it will be very interesting
to see in any event the the basis the
basis of our rejection of the Warren
Commission the report rest on many
things but most centrally on the
forensic evidence which does not bear
out the Warren Commission report so glad
to see all of you here we hope that
you'll be back at all the panels members
of the members of the press as well
should I turn the floor over now and you
wish okay
and we'll sure yeah but we're going to
have we're going to we're going to and
then and then we'll ask questions okay
we gotta write more our next speaker is
dr. film Ellenson he is the conference
chair this year he's a professor of
political science at the University of
Massachusetts Dartmouth during the past
15 years he'd used Freedom of
Information Act to obtain documents from
the CIA the FBI the Secret Service and
military intelligence these disclosures
produced a series of expose zand
profiles he is the author of nine books
and 27 articles dealing with
governmental secrecy political violence
intelligence agencies and public policy
issues melanson's has published in such
diverse outlets as the nation library
journal transaction society journal of
politics world teachers newspaper
syndicate and american political science
review he is lectured widely and
appeared or consulted in a number of
television productions his works include
spy saga a book on Oswald's intelligence
connections and the robert f kennedy
assassination new revelations on
conspiracy and coverup 1968 1991 his
most recent work is shadow play robert f
kennedy Sirhan Sirhan an American
justice let me call on dr. Phil melons
thank you i'm going to try to highlight
for you some of the things we'll be
doing on the RFK and MLK cases and we
really do have some exciting new
information and some very important
developments in each of those cases will
have with us tomorrow dr. William pepper
who as many of you know is James Earl
rays lawyer and the dramatic legal and
ballistics evidence results that are
going on in that will be talked to by
dr. peppers as many of you also know
some results of the rifle testing for
the first time have come back it's not
clear to me what that means or what the
legal strategies for reopening the case
will be from here on but we'll get to
hear that firsthand from James L Rais
lawyer and on Wednesday of next week
there will be a court hearing in Memphis
that will solidify or finalize what's
going on with the right
testing so it's a very important week in
the MLK case I'm going to highlight for
you some of the developments in the
Robert Kennedy assassination the most
dramatic of which is sore hands their
hands parole hearing coming up next
Wednesday also and that should be a very
interesting event and our hope is that
it will focus not just on the legal
issues but provide some focus on the
evidence issues in the case I will also
report on a writ of habeas corpus put
together by Sir hands lawyers claiming
very forcefully I think that he did not
get a fair trial to begin with and
asking for another trial there's also
the Scot and your lawsuit that I
reported on last year that many of you
are familiar with the young photographer
who took pictures that he alleged showed
the actual shooting a Robert Kennedy and
we don't have any such pictures and a
jury awarded him six hundred thousand
dollars in damages implicitly concluding
that LAPD had had and destroyed those
photos and therefore and yet was
entitled to damages and that is going to
be appealed by LAPD and I'll comment on
that let me put in a plug for the
importance of our main conference theme
which is full disclosure one of the
exciting things is you'll hear the
reports of what we're getting in the JFK
case thanks to the legislation and the
review board I wish things were as Rosie
in the MLK and RFK cases in the rfk case
sir hands lawyer this far from 1968 has
just put together the kind of legal
brief that had the files been released
in 68 or 70 or had disclosure to the
defense taken place at the appropriate
legal and constitutional level there
would have been interesting appeals that
might have changed the legal course of
this case as it is since the files were
secret until a decade ago it's taken
this long for the legal team to put this
information together because the files
were suppressed in the King case we're
still waiting on those approximately 300
I think John John in the King case we
have is about six hundred thousand pages
classified
those 600 to 700 50,000 pages of
documents still under congressional seal
as we're the JFK records and those
records need to come out there important
for the history of the case for
reinvestigation and they're also central
to James will raise legal plight for as
long as he's alive and also for the King
family's continuing pursuit of the truth
of the murder of their husband and
father which will take place whether ray
dies or not and I think that's a very
dramatic and interesting development but
absent those documents which there's no
apparent immediacy to disclose it's
going to be much tougher for anybody to
learn the truth and Coppa is committed
to the release of those files as it was
to getting the rfk files and the JFK
files released so I hope you will stick
around with us for these dramatic and
interesting presentations there's a lot
going on even given the time frame after
all these years and look forward to
seeing you Thanks i would also before we
take questions I'd like to recognize
John judge who's executive secretary of
Copa and we very much appreciate all the
work that John does who really keeps us
organization together so that we can
come up here and do this so thank you
we'll take questions why don't we come
up here just stand up here and go ahead
and ask any questions and direct it to
whoever you want I wanna ask balance in
question you know that a Sirhan program
I don't suppose that's a public hearing
is it the pro hearing the parole hearing
is semi public in that it's a very small
room but my understanding is that court
TV will be allowed to have one camera
there the rest of the press pool will be
segregated in a different room and CBS
is going and there's still be some big
cameras there but but a lot of them will
have to feed off of Court TV so it will
be public I think it's very limited
access the part that's not public is the
deliberations of the parole board and
I'd have to point out that to Sirhan
paroles ago the parole board said let's
go make our decision they went into a
room that they thought was appropriately
locked but the
quarter was on broadcasting to the press
they told three off-color jokes joked
with each other about whether they'd
stayed in the room long enough and came
out and gave their verdict so the
deliberations won't be public but the
event the event should be you know I
said Corcoran state prison in Corcoran
California about a hundred miles north
of la that's in the prison where Sirhan
resides that's really full disclosure
other questions yeah alcorn can you talk
a little bit about what other
information there baby out there as it
relates to James Earl Ray other than the
bullet of the testing because it's
obvious that they're going to need more
than just a bullet to reopen this case
right and I'm going to let Phil talk on
that too but I think it's all most
importantly not focused so much on the
bullet because there's tremendous amount
of other material and information in
that case and needs to be looked at the
book that way and pepper wrote called
orders to kill is really where you need
to go to look because he's put together
a tremendous amount of information and
the ballistics is only the one piece of
it but what he's put together is that
there was we knew that there was US
Army's surveillance on King until the
day before the assassination because the
Memphis Commercial Appeal newspaper
reported that in an expos three or four
years ago but what way and pepper has
done is take it beyond that he has
confirmed got in touch with the
surveillance team members through the
reporter for the Memphis newspaper and
they say well yes they were also there
on the day of the assassination more
than that they were there on the day of
the assassination the US Army Military
Intelligence team he says photographed
the assassination at that time they were
taking photographs of King surveillance
photographs and photograph the entire
event and I think it's much more crucial
to understanding who did the shooting to
try to find those photographs or any
records of those photographs than to
rely entirely just on the bullet because
the photographs are going to give you
exactly what happened there's a lot more
information in orders to kill but I can
tell you that that if such surveillance
was there and
took those photographs the US government
should cough that up immediately I mean
that is the most relevant information
that you can ever imagine about that
crime and the fact that we know they
were there the day before and they had
surveillance on King for a period of
months they were surveilling him
everywhere he went they bugged his hotel
rooms they put him in the hotel rooms
where they wanted him to stay that had
the bugs inserted they made arrangements
with the hotels and they had a wire
tapping on the telephones and they had
photo surveillance and I really think
the best way to understand that event is
to have them divulge all the
surveillance they have filled you okay
well there is no authority for them to
do that and in fact if William pepper
says that the photographs show someone
else shooting King that they show a
rifle extending from the bushes outside
the back of the rooming house in the
restaurant if the surveillance
photographs do in fact show that then
that is evidence that Ray is not guilty
and under the constitutional standard of
Brady versus Maryland US Supreme Court
case that should have been produced
before his trial at any pendency between
now and should be produced today under
the law in the United States because if
the US government has proved that
someone's not guilty of a crime the law
in this country requires them to produce
it pronto with no complaining now if the
information it's conceivable that the
information may have existed at one time
and been destroyed does you know a
different situation and we might try to
reconstruct what it is but I have a
feeling that there's still some of that
information in the files yeah I'd like
to emphasize that raised lawyer mr.
pepper did not go after the ballistics
test because he thought it was the the
litmus test of guilt or innocence the
most important thing to do he went after
it because it was the only legal Avenue
available to him under the at that time
under Tennessee statute and he wasn't
going going to get a trial full blown
the case against Ray would not be proved
strong by by the match of that bullet to
the rifle it is very very weak and I
would guarantee that any reasonable jury
looking for reasonable doubt if they
were presented with the absence of
eyewitnesses the absence of fingerprints
where they should be the
of other suspects at the crime scene and
the very weak time in motion attributed
to James Earl Ray by the government that
I don't I don't think there's much doubt
that they would find that there was
reasonable doubt in his case secondly
the other part of this is who did it if
James Earl Ray didn't and we're not
talking about non-existent witnesses or
suspects bill pepper presents a list in
his book I present an implicit list in
my book they overlap a little bit they
diverge a lot the point is if you want
to bring people in under oath who might
be suspects or our suspects and might
have involved or who might know who was
involved you can do that and it could be
a lengthy and very productive process so
we're not just talking about cantil
arisen and matches here the bullet test
is important but it's only the tip of
the iceberg in in the truth of the of
the King case the y ou'll character that
mr. rate continues to says was acting in
courts with them of your speculation on
who this raul person might be well i'll
leave that to william pepper tomorrow
because we have different theories on
this which shows that analysts can
disagree i think that there was not one
rahul but a series of composites that
ray put together pepper on the other
hand not only thinks there was one but
he thinks he's found the one and it is
this raul character that pepper would
present to the court if he got the
opportunity in a trial among others my
understanding is the Tennessee law
permits the private individuals to bring
forward a prosecutor in a criminal case
that Tennessee is one of only a few
states that permit private criminal
prosecutions and that what may happen
ultimately in this case of the state of
Tennessee does not want to pursue this
case that a group of private citizens
may pursue it under Tennessee law
it's a reason for that for them to
destroy the original autopsy on Kennedy
well I think the reason is because the
original autopsy report would show that
the bullet struck in the back and
couldn't possibly have exited the throat
the FBI agents who were in the room that
night wrote a report on this and they
described one of the autopsies as
probing the back wound and finding it
was only about a finger deep it was a
very light wound and there not being a
bullet he not having discovered a bullet
he speculated Oh what I wonder what
happened to the bullet during the
autopsy word came from Dallas that they
had found a bullet on a stretcher and
the autopsies then said ah well that
must be the bullet from the back wound
it worked itself out of the wound while
they were working on him in Dallas they
did not they did not examine the wound
in the throat at all they thought that
was simply the result of a tracheotomy
they didn't even look at it and yet a
couple of days later you have the
autopsies saying that it went in the
back of the neck and exited exited the
throat the same bullet that that night
they said must have worked itself out of
the back room of the back wound so if
the original autopsy report had gone in
it would have indicated that the wound
was in the back as their autopsy diagram
showed could not possibly have exited
the throat and therefore could not
possibly have caused the wounds to
Governor Connally and yet the wounds to
Governor Connally were real they were
there which means that there had to be
another shooter firing from the rear to
have to have caused those wounds and if
the wound and the throat is not a wound
of exit then it's most likely
a wound of entry which leaves you with a
question as to what happened to the
bullet but given that they performed a
tracheotomy and so forth that is
something that that could perhaps be
explained but the original autopsy
report is destroyed because you couldn't
have had the single gunman firing from
the rear theory put forward but
following up on the Raoul question isn't
there some indication that the house
select committee on assassinations a
located or had knew about the
whereabouts of Raoul and hid this
information that's been suggested let me
say that it's known that there are there
are a lot of information on some of the
people that we regard as suspects that
is in house committee files sometimes
they looked at people closer than they
admitted in their final report sometimes
they looked at them not hardly at all
but there's material there didn't end up
in their final report so we really need
that record to sort all that out I saw
it CNN Headline News last night a story
that they said the defense team for
James our way is requesting additional
tests on the bullet in the rifle saying
that they weren't happy with the results
so far now as far as I know those
results have not been made public but
just be some kind of a leak or
preemptive strike to like discredit if
there is positive proof that the bullet
does not match the rifle you can ask
William pepper tomorrow what his theory
on that is uh because the the real legal
word the definitive word will not come
until Wednesday how that story got out
there I don't know and but I did see it
I don't I frankly don't quite understand
it even though I saw it and i'm waiting
for pepper to explain it to me Oh as it
relates to the FBI and Martin Luther
King obviously J group Hoover had had
his reasons for wanting to discredit k
the king and his his whole movement
can you can you address this whole FBI
issue and King Endon and it's wanting to
get him and could that have been part of
this whole scenario that word about this
assassination I'll turn it over to fill
but when we got the CIA documents that
were released in 1993 as part of the JFK
release there was a package of documents
in there that were related to the Martin
Luther King assassination they're on
plain paper CIA releases they didn't
have a letterhead and there were reports
of surveillance of Martin Luther King
and I told Phil about them and he got
hold of them I think they're in that BBC
documentary that will be played tonight
there's discussion discussion of it but
reading these surveillance reports of
King are a harrowing experience to read
even now because what was happening was
that the both the FBI and the CIA were
focused on King in the spring of
nineteen sixty eight as being a threat
to national security of the United
States because they were receiving
informant reports from an informant that
have been planted in his entourage a
fellow who turns out to be quite
unreliable because he has a distinct
political viewpoint which he now admits
he was embellishing the reports that
were being provided that his government
agencies to give basically his opinion
his personal opinion and he said he
never intended them to take his comments
as fact but you can tell from the
reports that not only did they take them
as fact they circulated them between the
FBI and the CIA and I'll tell you what
the guy was saying what the guy was
saying to them was that Martin Luther
King is an agent of Peking now known as
Beijing but then they spelled at Peking
and that his movement is being
controlled by peeking all right
Communist China if you talk to that guy
today he says well that was my opinion
you know just watching what he did that
was what I thought was going on that I
didn't mean them to take that literally
you know that was just my political
perspective where you can see from these
surveillance reports and the internal
memoranda they took it very seriously
and they were very concerned in the
spring of nineteen sixty eight that
Martin Luther King was going to lead a
movement to Washington called the poor
people's March
it was going to be a follow on to the
march in 63 this was going to be the
poor people's March and they were saying
they were going to come to Washington in
order to raise the issue of poverty in
the United States and is clear that the
Security Agency saw that as a threat in
the summer of nineteen sixty-eight to
the functioning of the government in
Washington and saw it as an attempt to
disrupt the gun the functions of
government they went so far as they had
informants in church groups and they
were getting informant reports from the
church groups about how the King
movement was asking for churches in the
Washington area to help put up these
people who were organizing this March
and the CIA was getting reports about
how and actually asked one of the church
boards to have a dispute over whether to
help the March and I have to give credit
to the Unitarian Church in Arlington
they voted 721 to help the March you
know and the CIA point of view was
outvoted 721 but as you would read those
reports you realize that in the spring
of 68 from the government's security
perspective that they were in a very
defensive and i would say paranoid state
in the spring of nineteen sixty eight
and what's even more disturbing to me is
that the same unreliable informant was
telling them the robert f kennedy was in
the same position and he his reports are
aimed at both martin luther king and
robert kennedy in that period of time so
yeah i just like to comment a bit here i
think we missed an important part of our
history if we think that j edgar
Hoover's personal pathology and racism
as it was directing the bureau was the
real problem it was a real problem the
real problem the real story is that the
CIA the FBI and Army Intelligence
according to their own documents
regarded the civil rights movement
generally and Martin Luther King very
particularly as the ultimate national
security communist threat to the United
States and it's in writing and we must
add the Vietnam War to this equation
that in addition to economic justice
which they read as communism now we have
dr. King stridently opposing the Vietnam
War of the year before his death and the
memos going back and forth and saying
now he
really peking controlled look what he's
saying now he said they've really got
his buttons and this is dangerous to our
national security so you had a panic
situation in which independently but
feeding off of each other these three
powerful intelligence agencies were
zeroing in on Martin Luther King and we
know the two of them were there at the
crime scene and if the CIA wasn't
joining the trilogy I would be very very
surprised so so they may hold the key to
the truth of this matter more than any
of the witnesses when King repudiated
the Vietnam War do you think that may
have tipped the scale i buy the memos
that definitely tip the scale it went
from a worrisome situation of racial
animosity hatred and Prejudice and fear
about economic politics and racial
politics to a major national security
issue and that up the ante tremendously
any other questions all right if not
thank you very much we appreciate it we
have people here have additional
information about the conference if you
would like it so feel free to ask
you
a program called him again I want you
know pockets I hope you know the origin
whatever you want mercy videos are the
right o people that one who killed in
MLK cover stories affair that we have a
crime so heinous without suppression
always it give us a few minutes but
you're a freshman I have you have ebooks
for information on House and Senate
members c-span's 1997 Congressional
directory is available it helps